I. Introduction

    A network of automatic data buoys for monitoring synoptic-scale fields of 
pressure, temperature, and ice motion throughout the Arctic Basin was 
recommended by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences in 1974. Based on the 
Academy's recommendation, the Arctic Ocean Buoy Programme was established by the
Polar Science Center, University of Washington, in 1978 to support the Global 
Weather Experiment. Operations began in early 1979 and the program continued 
through 1990 with funding from various agencies. In 1991, the Arctic Ocean Buoy 
Programme was superseded by the International Arctic Buoy Programme (IABP), 
although the basic objective remains the same: to establish and maintain a
network of drifting buoys in the Arctic Ocean to collect data needed for
real-time operations and meteorological and oceanographic research.

    Annual reports on this data were published from 1979 through the present.



II. Data Processing

   Data for these reports were processed as outlined in the 1986 data report
with the exception that we have reverted to 3-hourly interpolation of sea-level
pressure and air temperature. The average daily temperature was calculated from
these eight measurements; an asterisk in the tabular data indicates that one or
more of these measurements was not available.



APPENDIX: AVAILABLE DATA SETS

Data Set AB:

   Twelve-hourly pressure and temperature fields.   These data can be read with
the following FORTRAN statements:


        INTEGER LAT, LD, LH, LONG, LM, LY, PX, PXX, PXY, PY, PYY
        REAL    EP, ET, P, T

        READ (,1) LY, LM, LD, LH, LAT, LONG, P, T, EP, ET, PX, PY,
                  PXX, PXY, PYY
      1 FORMAT       (4I3, I4, I5, F8.1, F7.1, 2F5.1, 2I5, 3I6)

        LY       is the year less 1900. Ie. LY = 92.
        LM       is the month; 1 for January, 2 for February, etc.
        LD       is the day of the month.
        LH       is the hour in GMT; LH = 0 or 12.
        LAT      is the latitude in degrees north.
        LONG     is the longitude in degrees east.
        P        is the interpolated pressure in millibars.
        T        is the interpolated temperature in degrees Celsius 
                 averaged from LH -12 to LH + 12 hours.
        EP       is the interpolation error variance in millibars squared.
        ET       is the interpolation error variance in degrees Celsius
                 squared.
        PX, PY   are the pressure derivatives times 10^3 in the x and y
                 direction. PX and PY are in units of millibars per
                 kilometer.
        PXX,     are the interpolated second derivatives of 
        PYY,     pressure times 10^6. Units are in millibars per 
        PXY      kilometer squared.


Data Set C:

    Daily buoy positions. These data can be read with the following
FORTRAN statements:

        INTEGER ID, LD, LH, LM, LY
        REAL    LAT, LONG

        READ (,1) LY, LM, LD, LH, ID, LAT, LONG
      1 FORMAT  (4I3, I5, F7.3, F9.3)

        LY       is the year less 1900. Ie. LY = 92.
        LM       is the month; 1 for January, 2 for February, etc.
        LD       is the day of the month.
        LH       is the hour in GMT; LH = 0 or 12.
        ID       is the buoy identification.
        LAT      is the latitude in degrees north.
        LONG     is the longitude in degrees east.


Data Set D:

    Interpolated ice velocity fields.  This data set contains ice velocity
estimates at a fixed grid of points.  The data can be read with these FORTRAN
statements:

        INTEGER LAT, LD, LH, LM, LONG, LY
        REAL       DUDX, DUDY, DVDX, DVDY, SIGMA2, UX, UY

        READ (,1) LY, LM, LD, LH, LAT, LONG, UX, UY,
                  SIGMA2, DUDX, DUDY, DVDX, DVDY
      1 FORMAT       (4I3, I4, I5, 2F7.1, F5.1, 4F8.2)

        LY       is the year less 1900. Ie. LY = 92.
        LM       is the month; 1 for January, 2 for February, etc.
        LD       is the day of the month.
        LH       is the hour in GMT; LH = 0 or 12.
        LAT      is the latitude in degrees north.
        LONG     is the longitude in degrees east.
        UX       is the interpolated ice velocity in the x direction in cm/s.
        UY       is the interpolated ice velocity in the y direction in cm/s.
        SIGMA2   is the variance of the interpolation error in velocity,   
                 in dimensionless   units.   No confidence should be
                 placed in interpolated velocities for which SIGMA2 > 0.5.
        DUDX, DUDY,     are interpolated   velocity   derivatives expressed in 
        DVDX, DVDY      Cartesian coordinates. After multiplication by 10 -7   
                        the reported values have units of s-1.


Note on Coordinates: The pressure and velocity derivatives are expressed with 
respect to a rectangular coordinate system with the origin at the North Pole,
the x axis coinciding with the Greenwich Meridian, and the y axis with the 90E 
Meridian. The transformation from latitude and longitude to x and y is:

        x = 110.949 (90 - lat) cos (long)
        y = 110.949 (90 - lat) sin (long)

where x and y are in kilometers and latitude and longitude are in degrees.





Availability: These data sets are archived at the World Data Center
A: Glaciology and can be obtained on magnetic tapes as described below or
via anonymous FTP.  Inquiries should be addressed to:

         National Snow and Ice Data Center
         CIRES, Campus Box 449
         University of Colorado
         Boulder, Colorado 80309 U.S.A.

         Telephone (303) 492-5171



The authors can be contacted at:

         University of Washington
         Polar Science Center
         1013 N.E. 40th Street
         Seattle, WA 98105 U.S.A.

         Telephone (206) 543-1300


FOREWORD

The International Arctic Buoy Programme (IABP) is funded and managed by its
participants.  Representing eight countries, participants include operational
and research agencies, meteorological and oceanographic institutes, and
nongovernmental organizations.  Participant contributions include equipment,
services, and program coordination, as well as funding.  


IABP participants are:

Alfred-Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research			Germany
Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute					Russia
Christian Michelsen Research						Norway
Meteorological Service of Environment Canada				Canada
	Assisted by other agencies including:
		Polar Continental Shelf Project
		Canadian Coast Guard
		Canadian Forces
		Institute of Ocean Sciences
International Arctic Research Center					U.S.
Japan Marine Science and Technology Center				Japan
Marine Environmental Data Service					Canada
National Ice Center							U.S.
	Representing:
		National Aeronautics and Space Administration
		National Science Foundation
		National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
		Office of Naval Research
Naval Meteorology and Oceanography Command				U.S.
Naval Oceanographic Office						U.S.
Norsk Polarinstitutt							Norway
Norwegian Meteorological Institute					Norway
Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory					U.S.
Polar Science Center / Applied Physics Laboratory /			U.S.
		University of Washington
Service Argos								France
U.K. Meteorological Office						U.K.
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution					U.S.
World Climate Research Programme /					international
		World Meteorological Organization
Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission				international
International Council of Scientific Unions		 		international




ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The International Arctic Buoy Programme is partially funded through the U.S.
Interagency Arctic Buoy Programme (USIABP).  We are grateful to Christopher Oconners
of the U.S. Navy/NOAA National Ice Center, Chairman of USIABP, for his continued
support of the data handling portion of the IABP.  Preparation of the latest
reports and archiving of the data were funded through ONR contract
N00014-98-1-0698.
